AutoSubmissions installation notes
==================================

These are installation notes for the MySQL/Ruby on Rails automated
submissions system. There is a set of Perl modules installed as part
of the main Tab2MAGE installation which are required for the CGI web
submissions form and automated processing daemons; this document
covers database initialization, and setup and invocation of the
curation submissions tracking web interface.

Prerequisites
-------------

First, install ruby, rubygems and rails. See http://rubyforge.org and
http://www.rubyonrails.com for details on how to do this. You will
also need to install MySQL (version 4.1 or 5.0 is recommended; see
http://www.mysql.org).

You will also most likely need to install the native MySQL interface
for Ruby. This is most easily accomplished using the rubygems system:

gem install -y mysql -v 2.7 -- --with-mysql-config /the/path/to/your/mysql-config/executable

Database setup
--------------

Creation of the MySQL database and suitable login privileges is left
to the user. To set up the database tables, switch to the db/
directory and issue the following command:

mysql your_database_name < database-mysql.schema

This only creates the tables. Alternatively, you can create a database
populated with some initial values for experiment annotation and
default users:

mysql your_database_name < database-mysql.dump

Your database details must be entered in the config/database.yml file;
See the file, database.yml-mysql, for an example.

Webserver setup
---------------

To start the included WEBrick server, type:

ruby scripts/server webrick

Now navigate to http://localhost:3000/ to check that everything is
working.

If you have installed the LightTPD web server, you should be able to
use it in full backgrounded daemon mode like this:

ruby scripts/server -d

In this case the webserver will be available at
http://localhost:8087/, with configuration options set in the
config/lighttpd.conf file.

Once running, please use the user account 'admin' (password 'admin')
to access all parts of the application. Low-privilege users may be
added using the web interface; curator- and admin-level users must be
created by modifying the roles_users table directly in the MySQL
database. Examples are included in the database-mysql.dump file.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright Tim Rayner <rayner@ebi.ac.uk> ArrayExpress Team, EBI, 2007.
